[Music]
hey everyone welcome to the smart
economy podcast a production of
neonewstoday.com I'm your host Dylan
Grabowski in this episode of the smart
economy podcast I sat down and spoke
with Tama church house the COO at
Cumberland Labs Cumberland Labs is a
global blockchain incubator comprised of
blockchain developers product managers
researchers Traders and former Founders
the team's mission is to create and
support projects that Advance the
applications of blockchain and use this
technology to solve real world
challenges in this conversation Tama and
I discuss getting Bitcoin in 2013
Lessons Learned as a VC in the Eos
ecosystem what has surprised him during
his tenure in the blockchain industry
the four Ps of incubating a new business
recently launched Cumberland and Labs
products and more just a reminder
nothing said on this podcast is a
solicitation to buy or sell any tokens
that nothing should be taken as
Financial advice and that the host or
guests May hold tokens discussed in any
given episode with that said I really
enjoyed chatting with Tama and I hope
you enjoyed the conversation too
hey everyone welcome to the smart
economy podcast today we are joined by
Tama church house the CEO at Cumberland
Labs how are you doing this evening Tama
good thanks Dylan how are you I'm doing
well got really excited for this
conversation when I was sort of digging
into your background and a lot of the
cool things that your incubator is
working on as well as just kind of the
relationship with the market making team
behind Cumberland Labs at drw but before
we jump into all of that you have kind
of a really interesting background in
traditional finance and in the banking
sector so before you got into the crypto
space you were vice president at GP JP
Morgan can you just share a little bit
about what your Genesis was into the
finance and banking space before you got
bit by the crypto bug yeah sure so I'm
kind of Hong Kong born and bred I've led
to for most of my life so finished
University in London came out to Hong
Kong and you know I really didn't know
what to do so my old man who was
ex-banker said you know why don't you go
into banking I said sure joined Abby
lamarrow and then JP Morgan
predominantly focused on structured
derivatives so kind of multi-asset
derivatives rates credit FX that kind of
thing did that for about 10 years just
got rather bored of it to be honest and
then left to join a family office in a
CIO role and was managing money kind of
a public book a private book a number of
businesses but um you know we had a
small Venture Capital portfolio and that
was how I met a guy called Brendan
blumer who went on to film block one and
that was in in 2012 and he sold me my
first Bitcoin in 2013. you know I'd love
to say I backed up the truck but I did
not I kind of you know back then it you
know you couldn't really trade it very
well you know certainly out of Hong Kong
you know unless you're gonna do it for
cash in person you know the entire
ecosystem was still very early and I I
didn't really think much of it but it
kind of kept nagging at me and then I
kind of moved on to other things and
Brendan kind of kept you know when
ethereum launched you know he pulled me
into that and I'd invested in him the
company that was you know later to
become block one and the company was
doing a lot of and I was sitting on the
board and the company was doing a lot of
stuff on the side in the crypto space so
this was 20 I guess 2016 and it was kind
of leading as that first Ico boom and
doing a lot of consultancy advisory and
getting paid in token and then all of a
sudden these tokens would be worth
multiples of original value and you know
there was clearly something there and
that was kind of how Brendan connected
with Dan and Larimer and then obviously
went on you know to do EOS and the Ico
you know I kind of was with them as a
partner throughout that Ico period in
the meantime was launching a crypto
research publication kind of a retail
focused one which was then bought by a
publishing house out of the US which has
now gone public actually so I did that
for every year and that was fantastic
because it was real just hard work you
know if you want to learn anything well
the best thing to do is write about it
and write about it in a way that anyone
can understand so it really forced a lot
of discipline in terms of understanding
the entire space and then subsequently
joined block one on the Venture Capital
team for a few years and then I was in
London for a while joined a sports
agency heading their digital asset and
nft strategy and this was in 2021 this
was kind of the nft boom and that
conversation really started with this
head agent you know who had you know a
stable of you know really high profile
athletes in the UK and you know they're
all coming to him saying hey you know so
and so you know my team bait or whatever
is is doing this and a t thing and you
know and coining it what's your agency
doing so you know I joined him you know
and to be honest 95 of the job was
really just saying no at that stage and
then I moved to Singapore last year and
Cumberland reached out and they were
just getting incumbent Labs started so I
joined them you have a really
interesting perspective because now in
the space you're an OG you've been
hodling Bitcoin since 2013 so there's a
lot I kind of want to talk about like
what was the early days like when you
got your first Bitcoin it sounds like
you kind of purchased it in person what
were you thinking about the asset class
then because the space you were in the
traditional finance and banking sector
though you might not have been super
passionate about it there had to have
been in the early days a ton of
skepticism from your colleagues your
peers people just incredulous that
peer-to-peer money could become a thing
and back then it was less than four
years old so when you first got your
your first Bitcoin you didn't sound like
you were too enthralled with it I mean
you were like cool digital money I got
it was there any sort of idea back when
you got your first Bitcoin of what the
crypto digital asset space would look
like today was it kind of inconceivable
to think that far out what were your
sort of initial insights into the space
I think a few things you know the first
thing was back then it was such a small
Niche area and the early years of
Bitcoin were populated by some pretty
interesting individuals so I say that
mildly and I think about how much it's
changed actually and how much it's
institutionalized and grown up when I
think back to you know those conferences
back in even 2015 20 2016 even the
Satoshi Roundtable back in 2018 you know
a lot of those people just are not
really around anymore they were still
highly dominated by people who I think
came into it with a lot more political
kind of zeal should I say rather than
oppositionistic money making you know
there was certainly plenty who saw that
but I think kind of the overall
narrative really was you know it was a
very libertarian kind of framework there
were you know I think it was really open
to anyone right there was no there was
no gating on who was a bitcoiner and who
is a crypto person right it was just
stopped in so you had some super
interesting people I don't think it was
really until ethereum and then some of
the early you know the other smart
contract platforms some of the delegated
proof of stake ones you know really from
Dan larima you know when I saw protocols
like steemit and really the fact first
thing that really flicked the light bulb
for me was a peer-to-peer gambling
bedding company that was trying to come
to market and just the way they
explained how the Enterprise would live
on lecture in a completely decentralized
way fully transparent and in a sense
where everyone who owned tokens would
you know get some dividend get some
profit share from this Ledger from this
business which was open to anyone
completely accessible completely trusted
trustless encoded on chain I thought you
know this is super again that was kind
of the light bulb I think for a number
of reasons you know I was over bullish
in terms of what I expected from the
space certainly you know I think mid 23
now I would have expected that initial
thinking and vision that I had for what
the space would become it just hasn't
really materialized and there are
reasons for that we can come into which
you know a big part of them revolved
around regulation but that was some
super crazy characters they still are
but I mean you know back the first if it
was yeah it was real wild west stuff and
when it came you know when it comes to
friends and family I mean people just
thought I was nuts you know I've always
been like the first adopter right the
first thing that comes out gen one I
just I want to try it and you know it
was the same thing with Bitcoin then
later beef and the other chains but I
haven't said that like I'm also the
person who first sold East at nine
dollars the reasoning for that was you
know I said like this is just now we're
going to scale like you're never gonna
be able to run like a scalable
Enterprise app on chain on this chain
it's not gonna happen so I sold at now
because I ended up buy bracket at like
300 bucks or something just um yeah fun
times yeah I just finished reading
digital Gold by Nathaniel popper which
is kind of the first four and a half
five years of bitcoin's history and it
very much goes through the eccentric
personalities the libertarian types The
Cypher punks and the hackers who were
trying for decades to build a digital
cache and then when Satoshi figured out
a way to prevent the double spend attack
that was what really kind of opened the
doors for Bitcoin to become a thing so
it's really interesting to kind of dig
in and and hear what it was like from
folks who were who were kind of there
because I didn't get my first piece of
any digital asset until 2017 and much
like your experience the first time I
heard about Bitcoin was in 2013 and it
was just a small little blip in my mind
and then that was it I didn't come back
until the Ico boom so I got my start in
the Neo ecosystem which was a competitor
to EOS back in the day and I can very
much empathize with what you said
earlier in our conversation which is you
dug in working on the publication and
you were putting in your 10 000 hours
learning about all these dpos networks
different types of consensus mechanisms
things of this nature so before we kind
of jump into the work that you're doing
now I think that that was a nice
launching point so what was the name of
your publication that's called crypto
Capital crypto Capital so when you were
working on crypto Capital what were your
metrics what were you looking into was
it anything and everything was it
grocking proof of work and comparing it
to other consensus mechanisms what were
sort of the things you were focusing on
during this time which was what
2014-15 so crypto Capital was
2017 and so the first piece I wrote to
that audience and I had a pretty large
subscriber base you know north of 100
000 on the free one and then the paid
one was less the framework for that was
I was identified this as an asset class
right where there was a possibility to
make some serious returns right and
returns that you're not going to make
anywhere else and that was kind of what
was so interesting right the kind of
multiples that you could reasonably
expect throughout 2016 in 2017 was
simply far above anything else that any
average person would be able to access
just period end of story maybe or if
you're a fantastic options Trader and
you're buying some kind of deep out of
the money kind of event-driven you know
position maybe but you you really could
and so my subscribers were completely
new to crypto as was any you know most
people so in a general framework was
kind of a monthly piece of anywhere from
five to seven thousand words you know
super deep dive but written in a very
accessible array I mean my editor I mean
he just whipped me into shape over the
course of six months and just constantly
you know shorten your sentences don't
use five words with two will do and it
was just it would ground me down into
that so for my subscribers it was okay
I'd write a piece on you know and these
were recommendations right because
there's a exception if you're writing in
a publication you're perfectly at
Liberty to give buy and sell
recommendations you know especially out
of Hong Kong because it falls under
journalism and you're not giving any
individual advice I know that's a
different thing in the US so the idea
was okay here's a crypto asset that I
think is worth the pace in your
portfolio and the idea here was a lot of
my audience I would say the average age
of my audience was in their 50s and 60s
there were people who actually had
wealth and were managing their money a
few in their 20s and 30s but really the
vast majority actually were kind of
middle-aged and they had money they were
kind of active traditional investors and
it was always a case of look allocate 25
000 or 50 000 to this asset class and
you start with Bitcoin and but you know
Neo was a recommendation at one point
but to go through that there's a lot of
Duffy yeah the CEO I don't think yes
that's right so you have to tell the
story you know real understanding of the
protocol explained to Layman do you want
to explain where you can buy it how to
buy it how to store it so I'd make
videos on this is the wallet so you
download it this is how you keep your
private key so it was the most
Grassroots ground publication you know a
huge amount of and I did it all myself
and it was just me I didn't have a
research analyst I had an editor and I
had some distribution you know it was
really just me so you know any
subscriber will be able to come on and
understand exactly how to acquire five
thousand dollars worth of Neo or Stella
or Monero or Zen cash as it was called
back at the time I mean obviously I date
myself with some of those it was very
much okay here's why I think the risk
adjusted return of this is is worth
having you know in your portfolio and
explaining why and explaining how that
position that was the the basic
objective for me you kind of move on
from providing this newsletter which had
huge reach six figures in reach is kind
of crazy especially when you're speaking
to a demographic that doesn't represent
your typical crypto holder which I
believe is the majority 35 and under
even today so curious to hear a little
bit about what has been the evolution in
Trends because from what I remember back
in the day it was very much learning how
is this protocol different from another
what's the wallet I need to download is
it compatible with Ledger or treasure or
whatever Hardware wallet you were using
and it was very much like tokenized
everything we're going to tokenize the
world let's tokenize Airbnb let's
tokenize Uber and in the years since
2016 2017 actual use cases have come out
and I'm sure you can speak to dozens
when it comes to defy nfts other
distributed architecture so as we're
kind kind of coming into the Arc of your
story at Cumberland labs and maybe you
can even use your experience your five
six years in the Eos ecosystem what has
been the evolution of use cases and
Trends with blockchain networks because
when I first got in it was very
wishy-washy we're looking towards the
future we're going to tokenize
everything and now today we're starting
to see actual use cases so just would be
very curious to hear your insights into
how Trends have kind of grown and become
more real since the time from when you
were first starting to write these
newsletters to the role you have today
one of the biggest things that I've
certainly got wrong and I think is
really one of the biggest Taps to real
growth in the entire ecosystem has been
the inability to really issue or launch
tokens that have any real concrete
inherent economic investment value it's
certainly been one of the major things
that I certainly got wrong because you
know when I think about if you own a
token in a protocol or in a dab or some
kind of on-chain Enterprise that token
has the potential to be kind of a
supercharged asset in terms of
distributions of dividends interest
royalties profit share voting and
governance you know it could unlock on
metamaski unlock a whole world of work
free you know as an asset it has huge
potential extensibility but the problem
is is that you've got a regulatory and
legal framework that looks at a token
and says okay if you want to launch a
token you need to strip out anything
that could even vaguely be presumed to
be a security-like characteristic I
remember you look at some of the white
papers back from
2015-16 even early 2017 you know you'd
see white people specifically talking
about dividends and profit shares and
all of that and that was okay this is
interesting right obviously that never
really took off for obvious reasons for
kind of security you know exchangers
can't trade them so on and so forth and
so at the end of the day what we got
stuck with post 2017 we really had a lot
of tokens that really couldn't there was
no way to really value them and the only
way to profit for them was simply if
someone was going to pay more than you
paid for and that was it on the
expectation that someone else was then
going to pay more you know in terms of
the evolution of the system and I think
it's still so you know in my opinion so
overly financialized you know you look
at the biggest players in the spaces
it's exchanges exchanges trading
borrowed lending it's now more so in the
derivatives and perp space as well but
it's so overly financialized that
there's a million and one ways to trade
and speculate but there just aren't
enough real underlying concrete
businesses being built at the moment and
you know a big part of that is because
of the lack of the ability to have some
of these characteristics is security
like characteristics in tokens that's
really unfortunate and obviously we've
seen the migration you know whether it's
D5 summer and nfts and you know we see
these waves come in and come out but the
sense that I get now is that we're
starting to see some actual quite
interesting I say much larger problems
being addressed you know especially in
things like payments for example where
there is a very clear need to address
you know some of the Legacy say
cross-border remittance issues that
really cannot be done through
traditional Finance at the moment I have
no way of being done in chat by at the
moment so I think it's kind of heads
down and build right now but yeah I'm
still Ultra pumped and about the space I
feel like I'm a bit battle hardened I
think the end of last year in particular
was very difficult but yeah I'm super
optimistic would you say that the
current Bearer Market we're in and you
specifically mentioned the end of last
year was that kind of one of the moments
of more serious or tangible existential
threat than any of the other moments
that you've been through in the crypto
space because you've been through Mount
gox you've been through the Ico boom and
bust China Banning Bitcoin unbanning
Bitcoin Banning crypto and now seemingly
other administrative regions allowing or
having new regulations would you say
that the digital asset space might have
faced its most existential threat last
year with the collapse of Luna and FTX
and thrills capital and all this other
contagion when I look back the period
where I was most alarmed for the future
of the space was actually you know the
block size Wars with Bitcoin
because that to me was you know you had
a real vicious Schism and Bitcoin was
really and always has really been the
foundation of the space that certainly
was back then and that period for me it
was like oof you know this is really
ugly you know and obviously the
subsequent Bitcoin cash was you know
less of an issue but that to me I think
was a period where I was really kind of
quite worried about the future of
Bitcoin I've not had that worry since
then in terms of Terror and three arrows
and FTX you know for me I was like
really again like really these are the
people who Define the industry that I've
spent I don't know so many years of my
life in and this is what everyone reads
and thinks about you know when they
think about the industry I work in and
that to me was just that was painful you
know right now I think we're at the
biggest pressure point is really coming
from out of the US in terms of the US
regulatory landscape it's interesting
though because I mean I've spent quite a
lot of time in the Middle East in you
know over the past few months as well as
Singapore and Hong Kong and the UK even
you know it's always like a bifurcated
crypto world right everyone is so
bearish in the US and I understandably
so Middle East is kind of like Hong Kong
2017. it's unbelievably bullish so much
optimism here in Hong Kong as well super
bullish people are very optimistic
Regulators are being in a pretty
Progressive same in the UK so from the
U.S perspective it's hard but I'm super
encouraged to see other jurisdictions
which are kind of tearing the ball yeah
I came into the space just on the heels
of the block size Wars so when I'm
digging in and rocking what Bitcoin is
I'm also dealing with these very
opinionated stances so it was really
hard to find a signal through the noise
back then but being in such an
international industry it is rough here
in the US right now with lack of
regulatory Clarity we have different
Regulators fighting over who's going to
have jurisdiction over what we have a
inaction from Congress but it definitely
does help to be in an international
space and to recognize a lot of the
different regions that you just
referenced so I think despite all the
kind of like undertones of maybe
potential holdbacks when it comes to
like International Adoption right now
you know different Regulatory Agencies
across the world there is a lot of
opportunity and I think that your
experience in EOS your experience
digging deep in 2016-17 into these
various different protocols kind of put
you into a really unique position that
you have now as CEO at Cumberland Labs
so to kind of get a little bit of
understanding as to what you do and what
cumberland's labs does could I ask for a
two-part question a could you explain
like I'm five what Cumberland Labs is
and then B could you also provide maybe
some of the benefits fits that comes
from being an incubation branch of drw
which is a global trading and Market
making company yeah sure so I'll
actually start with drw because that's
really where it all starts with
Cumberland so you know drw is a
chicago-based proprietary trading shop
founded by Don Wilson about 30 years ago
now about 1800 employees globally they
are a trading powerhouse it's a very
flat org structure it's really Traders
Engineers developers a lot of tech low
latency high frequency stuff you know
they got into the crypto space in around
2013 with Cumberland you know at the
time 2013 was a difficult time for a
company like drw necessarily to be going
all in on crypto so they set up a you
know a separate entity and Cumberland
have you know since become I believe the
largest OTC market maker in the space
certainly one of the top in
involved so they're kind of a great very
well run Market maker liquidity provider
in the space Cumberland Labs is an
initiative that was started last year
and so we're about a team of 2025 you
know developers product managers
engineers and Builders and effectively
we do two things we come up with ideas
internally of products and businesses to
build we'll scope them out we'll build
out a POC we'll put something into the
market test it and if it looks like it's
you know an Enterprise that has legs
will look to bring in a co-founder CEO
and externalize that as a separate
business and obviously when we're
looking to build businesses and incubate
businesses externally we're looking at
businesses where basically they're four
Ps right people products potential and
Partnerships so people obviously were
looking for fantastic domain experts you
know that you don't need to be an
entrepreneur but definitely need to have
the grit to go out and start a company
you know the product obviously it's got
to go through the same kind of typical
rigorous analysis that you would apply
to any kind of venture investment the
potential is obviously more about time
and you know how big how can this take X
percent of an existing Market or will it
create a new market itself and then the
Partnerships are what's the leverage
that drw have Cumberland and that
relationship and network and expertise
can provide to this business
um so if internal businesses that we
incubate and then externally we're
looking to write substantial first check
rounds a combination of capital and
resources into super early stage teams
so this is really pre-product for us it
requires a big swing at a bat you know
it's a substantial check size so we'll
looking for great people with great
ideas we're looking to give two years
worth of Runway to help support on every
level bringing that idea and business to
into fruition and we have all the
additional skill set that we apply
whether it's legal and Regulatory you
know Finance you know you name it you
know the marketing and the pr side of it
so we look to take a relatively small
number of high conviction that's when it
comes to external incubation and that's
really what Cumberland Labs does we look
to build businesses how are you guys
going about the search for these
businesses are there specific verticals
that you're interested in you mentioned
earlier that few use cases are actually
starting to shine right now so do you
have kind of a radar or a map for the
types of projects companies teams that
you guys are looking for yeah I mean
we've got kind of a short list of
projects and so say sectors within the
space that we're quite interested in and
there's certainly on the derivatives
exchange side of things we're super
interested you know anything involving
funky and unique applications for stable
coins whether it's devil coin trading or
even FX stablecoin trading is another
one that we're super interested in
payments is another and then within that
anything we're quite big Believers in
you know the potential of ZK AS
application for a early Financial
components of the crypto space so we're
very much open-minded the reality is we
do just need to see like we have to
think about what can we bring not only
from Labs but from Cameron drw what can
we bring extra that this company this
idea can't really get from anywhere else
right could it be Market making on day
one could it be you know a really solid
connection with our carbon Trader is
this is what they're looking to build
you know anything like that where we can
add a significant Edge to that company
that's kind of what we're looking to do
this is kind of a personal question I've
been covering Neo since 2017 I've
written the obituary for 95 of projects
that launched the token on this network
and I'm sure you've seen more than 90
during your tenure at EOS of projects
launch and fail so how does that
experience this is a double-edged sword
how does that experience a sharpen your
ability to hone in on the teams that are
really focusing on the right things but
also B how do you keep your positivity
when you're speaking with so many
pre-product teams how do you just keep a
positive perspective without thinking
like oh I've heard this before or I've
heard somebody with this zest and Zeal
speak like this and watch dozens of
these projects fail what does that sort
of experience kind of lend it's quite
hard sometimes to be talking with
Founders who have all the enthusiasm in
the world but an idea that it's very
difficult to say like I really just
don't see how that's going to work I
don't see a future for this project and
I don't see a future for you know
effectively your idea and I think one of
the biggest things is that people just
get married to their ideas and they
become very emotionally connected with
their idea it becomes almost like a
child or something like that and so you
have to be very cautious when you know
you're dealing especially with
first-time Founders people who've done
it before they come with a strong
convictions loosely held type approach
which is ideal and that's the best thing
you can find in a Founder because it
denotes that they have that conviction
but also the intellectual human ability
to be able to take in opposing
viewpoints and course correct and pivot
you know and change I think that's one
of the biggest differentiators because
again there's no barrier to entry to put
a deck together and go out and go try to
raise money right it's anyone can do
that there's nothing you need to pass to
be able to do that certainly you know I
was at eospc hundreds and hundreds and
hundreds of decks and pictures that I
went through and yeah it was certainly
difficult you know there were certainly
times where you know people get angry
because you're not going to invest in
them and you know it's difficult but at
the same time I've kind of gone through
that process myself and I know that you
learn from it and I would say for me
personally my entire career the biggest
lessons and the biggest growth have
always come from failure always you've
really learned nothing from success and
everything from failure you know that's
kind of one of the things I do you know
because I Mentor a lot of people and I
speak you know stay in touch with a lot
of people over the years as they update
me on their project and they've done
around and a lot of them have you know
obviously shut down or going out of
business at the moment and so I I've
been there myself and it's gut-wrenching
but it's a real learning process and
that's the best you could take from it
that was great advice and kind of
insight but on the flip side there are a
handful of products that Cumberland has
helped incubate and there are Now Beta
releases and there are actual releases
of tangible products so I do want to
talk a little bit about some of the
successes that have come out of
Cumberland so I think that there's maybe
four kind of Premier Products I'm really
interested to hear a little bit more
about digitali which was described to me
as a sort of Wikipedia for nfts so could
you just share a little bit more about
this product and kind of what drives you
guys and makes you so excited for it
yeah so that idea was a super simple one
and it was really kind of on the back of
a pivot you know we originally we were
looking to explore the entity space and
this is kind of when I joined this was
on the table and it was really more
about on-chain nft search and analytics
and a way to use it a way to create a
Google nfts where you get a fully index
everything on chain and we did some
experimentation you know tried on a few
pocs but really couldn't come up with
anything very compelling and so we
really pivoted and the idea was you know
I own some nfts I'm not a dgn nft trade
or anything like that but we kind of
found that if you were trying to find
out something about a particular
collection in terms of like just the
kind of level of information that you
would expect from Wikipedia right so
objective referenced you know clear
transparent and so no hype no fire just
very straightforward knowledge shall we
say you couldn't really find much of
that in the nft space right you'd have
to control around through a Twitter
maybe a Discord Channel you'd maybe go
to the nft the artist or the collection
website but you're not really going to
get much in the way of impartial
information there you're not certainly
not going to get it from Twitter so it
was like well hang on so why don't we
look at creating a web free Wiki for
nfts so each collection will have their
own page you know will start the
framework of it and following on from
that anyone who wants to add you know
content to a particular page can simply
connect their metamask wallet that
launches an editor they can add some
content a reference submit it and earn
some Reward Points obviously we can't
say token or anything yet like that at
this stage but for now reward points and
so the idea was okay this could be a
super useful resource for not only kind
of existing members of the community but
also new entrants right so you know a
few months ago Amazon started selling
nfts I think Google Play Store I think
today or yesterday has kind of changed
their policies on nfts you know we're
clearly in a period of extended
depression but nfts when it comes to
volumes in terms of trading volumes but
you know our belief is look nfts will
come back they will research and when
they do people will need a reliable
source of information you know for every
collection you know not only just about
the founders and the history but also
about the utility functionality the
Rarity trades and probably most
important of all you know the ownership
rights if you were going to ask any kind
of random nft holder and ask them to
describe to you the rights that they
hold or that they think they hold by
holding this particular nft I think
you'd find that most people just either
don't know can't find out or don't
really care the reality is considering
how nfts are positioned as this real
kind of unique one-of-one ownership
asset the reality is is that when it
comes to IP copyright and licenses it's
hugely desperate across Collections and
this is a particular point of
information that you know we want to
keep adding to our collection Pages
because we think that like once we get
90 of the information on a page it
becomes the de facto resource for people
right and it's we're not hyping we're
not Shilling they're fired anything like
that it's just pure objective
information and it's already open to
anyone who just wants to connect a
wallet you know there's no transactions
there's no ass you don't even need
anything in your wallet right it's just
purely as a means of us being able to
kind of log your contribution to a
particular wallet that is did study
that's the platform so we launched that
literally just a few weeks ago yeah and
it's been you know super interesting
experience thus far is the platform
cross chain and are you guys in beta are
you seeking beta testers right now yeah
so we're in beta at the moment so this
is kind of the public beta so we
launched with around 15 what usual kind
of complete Pages like complete Wiki
pages and then there's like another 100
with what we call relatively Bare Bones
information so that it's very easy to
people you know for anyone who wants to
earn Reward Points which would obviously
play a fundamental role in kind of quote
any future token distributions is a very
easy way to do it you know just purely
by you know contributing contributing
content so you know that's kind of where
we are now public beta really just at
the stage of kind of getting those first
users who are giving us great feedback
you know there's one thing about the NIT
Community is people are not shy about
telling you what you could do better so
yeah that's been super helpful as well
some of the other products that are
under the Cumberland umbrella focus on
providing like transparent information
for defy bridging D5 protocols to
centralized exchanges so do you want to
share a little bit about maybe hash node
or expand Network or some of the other
products that you guys are incubating
yeah so expand what's interesting one
again that kind of came out of a kind of
a core use requirement out of the
trading desk at drw and our defy trading
desks which were we're looking for a
single API to be able to connect on a
read write basis to multiple chains and
there really wasn't any so we kind of
scoped it started building it there's
quite a lot of interesting engineering
that goes into of being able to
especially when it comes to writing on
transaction you know writing
transactions on chain while that you
know without taking or holding your
private key so it's completely
non-custodial but it's a single API
adapter which allows you to read right
across dozens and dozens of chains
whether it's layer one twos D5 protocols
we've got the likes of dog a you name it
so we're going to constantly adding more
chains and you know that launch was
launched a couple of months ago and you
know the CEO has just joined demo he's
the former head of sales for Block demon
so he's kind of leading the sales effort
and the and the growth effort now and
that company's now being kind of fully
externalized hash node is a good example
of an internal incubation founder was a
guy called Leo mizihara so he was a ax
drw Trader so ran the bond options
trading their systematic trading you
know super smart guy you know kind of
develop a background and that idea was
okay how do we create on-chain Financial
products right so typically if I'm going
to buy say you know some kind of
structured note and you know my
background was was in you know
structured derivatives structured
finances you know especially on the
investment side is very very opaque
right you don't really know how much
money is being taken out of trade how
much is the broker taking how much is
the dealer taking how is the trader
taking and so what hashtag does it
combines you know a traditional
front-end fund structure with a fully
on-chain Asset Management platform so
why was the first Customer because
obviously we uh we our own dog food so
you know I put a hundred thousand into a
you know a collateralized eth put note
um so I can see in my note on chain pays
me a weekly coupon so that kind of asset
extracted asset is completely me on
chain fully collateralized so it's
credit risk free in the sense that you
know even if hash note and the market
maker were to disappear tomorrow my
funds are still on chain and if I've
kind of used NPC to set up that wallet I
can actually redeem my assets you know
things like that which you know super
interesting you know to look at and yeah
the response for hashnet has been been
really really interesting you know
especially on you know some of the
higher yielding strategies as well and
obviously a bit much more of a fit I
think for drw and Cumberland than
perhaps the nft space absolutely kind of
nearing the end of our time and wrapping
up I want to use this opportunity to
kind of pull from your experience being
at Cumberland labs for the past year and
arguably working in an internet native
space where you can work with any team
from anywhere around the world but
you're currently located in Hong Kong
and in June the these very favorable
regulations for digital assets rolled
out so I'm curious to hear what your
outlook is on potential projects or
teams that you're going to incubate that
might be local to your region do you
think that there's going to be more of a
geographic draw to Hong Kong based off
of these regulations or maybe even in in
the Middle East or UK based off of
potential positive looming regulations
do you think that geographies are going
to be able to attract teams that can
build in those regions absolutely you
know I think the Middle East is
certainly you know when it comes to
attracting boots on the ground I think
you know Dubai has taken you know a
pretty strong lead on that front really
I think over the last two years very
much so I mean Hong Kong is still it's
not really a magnet for early stage
Founders especially kind of people to
kind of come to Hong Kong Hong Kong you
know not a place where people migrate to
the startup business it's never really
been like that you know places like
Dubai because you can still live at you
know a reasonably cost effectively you
know Hong Kong's pretty expensive but I
would say across the four primary
regions whether it's the Emirates UK
Singapore and Hong Kong I would say from
certainly a more institutional
perspective I think the UK and Hong Kong
are very very well positioned and the UK
has an unbelievable opportunity right I
mean the US loss is their gain and if if
they kind of manage to really get a bit
of a progressive forward-thinking kind
of Regency framework in place and then
the UK could well become mid London
could easily become the global Center of
kind of blockchain like easily it very
much depends on the government Direction
and it was interesting to see at least
we just you know noting andreessen's
first non-us office opening in London
right that was quite interesting but you
know certainly Hong Kong I think intro
really really interesting 12 months
right there's a lot of there's still a
lot of money here there's a lot of
southbound Capital out of China into
Hong Kong so if I were to say real solid
Blue Chip blockchain projects I think
will really come out of London and Hong
Kong over the next 12 months that's
really interesting Insight so if there's
any Founders or early stage Builders who
are interested in connecting with you or
speaking with Cumberland Labs what's the
best way that they can go about opening
the lines of communication gosh we're
available on like I'm on Twitter DMS are
open
cumberlandlabs.io website there's just a
contact platform their yeah Twitter
LinkedIn telegram at church house I mean
anyone who wants to uh get a message to
Cumberland Labs or me is certainly won't
struggle to do so awesome well Tama this
was a really fascinating conversation it
was cool to pull your experience for a
decade now in this space and really
really cool to hear about your
perspective your Regional Outlook the
products that you guys are incubating
and really where we're going forward as
a space as a whole so I appreciate the
time you took today to speak with us in
the smart economy podcast no thank you
thank you for taking the time yes it's
been fantastic really enjoyed it awesome
well have a great night and uh cheers
thanks man take it easy
well what did you think of that
conversation I thought it was super
interesting to hear Thomas takes on the
inherent financialization of the broader
blockchain space but how those features
can't really be tapped into because of
regulations that might be holding
project Founders back it was also really
cool to hear about the different
products that Cumberland Labs has
incubated and how they were each
conceptualized from Real World needs I
also found it intriguing to hear that
Tama found the block size Wars between
2015 and 2017 more concerning for the
blockchain industry than the spectacular
collapses and frauds of 2022.
on that note I want to thank you so much
for taking the time to listen to the
smart economy podcast if you liked what
you heard and want to support the show
please keep Neo news today in mind when
voting for your Neo Council
representative and as part of Neo's
governance process we appreciate you and
look forward to catching you next time
[Music]